It's gonna be a
quick setup lesson
on how you can get started
writing Bootstrap and prepare
yourself in order
to create code.
In the upcoming lessons,
we're going to be
reviewing how to
get set up with Bootstrap,
where we can take a normal
looking webpage and apply
Bootstrap to it and apply
the Bootstrap styling on
the Bootstrap website.
When you go to getbootstrap.com,
there are CDN libraries,
so as their content
delivery networks.
So there's a CSS as well
as the JavaScript library,
and there's also a
starter template.
You can use these in order to
start and it gets set
up with Bootstrap.
We're gonna be showing
you how you can build
quick photo websites
using Bootstrap,
the main website for Bootstrap.
And to get familiarized with
bootstrap where
you can get all of
the different components and
additional details
is getbootstrap.com.
This will display whatever
the current version
of Bootstrap is.
So as I'm doing the recording,
the current version
is version 5.1.3.
And the versions do
update all the time,
so some of the
components will change.
So this video is
gonna be based on
this current version
of Bootstrap five.
I am gonna be using an editor
in order to write the code.
The editor that I'm using
is Visual Studio Code.
Now if you already
have an editor,
you can go ahead
and use the editor
that you're most familiar with.
If you want to try a new editor
or if you want to try
Visual Studio Code.
This is the website for it,
so that's at code dot
Visual Studio.com.
The editor opened on
the left-hand side.
And on the right-hand side
will be showing a preview of
the website content as we're
constructing and
building the content.
The editor code on the left and
then the website on
the right-hand side.
If you want to open
up the website,
you can simply select it
from where it's located on
your local device
and bring it over
and open it up
within the browser
the same way that I have it.
I do suggest as you go
through the lessons
of this course that you
try the code out to
get more familiar with what
you can do with Bootstrap and
you can customize it
and see what happens.
So going over to
getbootstrap.com,
This is the place to
start where you can
download the files.
So they've got right on the
homepage a download button.
And this will download the files
locally so that
you can access and
link to the CSS file as well
as the JavaScript file.
There's also a gets started
where you can link to the CDN's.
It's CDNs are done within
the content delivery network
and you will need to have
an Internet connection in
order to connect to these.
These are just live web
versions of the file.
So you can link your code to
the live web version and
bring it into your
projects that way.
There are some
advantages to using the
CDN's when ever they are online.
Chances are that the user might
already have at cash
within the browser.
So you might improve
some of your load time
as opposed to uploading the
Bootstrap files yourself.
You can do either one where you
could download the CSS file,
download the JavaScript file,
and then upload it to your own
server within your website.
So copy the CSS file
and we're gonna bring
that in to the top.
Go ahead and open up your
HTML file in the top,
just under the title.
Go ahead and paste the
link to the CSS file.
And that's going to
automatically bring all of
the CSS components and
the classes directly
within the project so
that you can start using
them and linking to them.
I do suggest that you do
create a second CSS file.
And this is a file that
you would be using
that you could update and
apply some of the properties.
So this is a
customized CSS file.
So, uh, creating, uh,
will allow you to
update properties
within your webpage.
Go ahead and create the CSS file
that you just link to from
the HTML and you'll be ready
to proceed to
create the project.
Let's go back to the
Bootstrap website.
We've brought the CSS,
and we're also going
to be bringing in
the JavaScript using the CDN's.
They also have links for
those on the website.
We can also get the
JavaScript file and bring
the JavaScript file in the
same way that we brought
the CSS and JavaScript.
All of the functions that
you're going to need
four components.
If you're not using
any of the components
and if you just
want plane styling,
you can just stay with
just the CSS file.
But if you are looking
at using some of
the components which
we are gonna be doing
and exploring in
the later lessons
that you need to bring
that in as well,
where the JavaScript, you
do have some options so
you can get the bundled
version of the JavaScripts.
So the JS file,
which is a minified version
as well as the CSS.
And this is going to include
both the pauper file and as
well as the bootstrap MSG S,
You can also separate those.
So bringing in the
Bootstrap minified JS file,
which is not going to
include the pauper.
The pauper is gonna be used
for tooltips and popovers.
Once again, if
you're not planning
on using those components,
but you don't need to bring
them in and you can just get
the regular Bootstrap JS file.
But if you are planning on
using the tooltips popovers,
then you can select either
the separate versions of
those libraries or
you can bring it in
as a bundled version
into the project.
I'm going to go ahead and select
the bundled version and placing
the script file just before
we close off the body tag.
So just before in
the body tag as we
are gonna be interacting
with the DOM content.
So we want all of the page
content to load first and
then access it using
the JavaScript code.
Going down to where we've
got the starter template.
So this is a starter
template and it's got
both of the CDN's that we've
just brought into our project.
I'm also going to
have the Meta tags.
These are required Meta tags,
the viewport and
the UTF dash eight.
I can just be added in the top.
Now we've got our HTML file,
we're ready to start
writing some code in there.
And alternatively, there's also
a starter template
that you can select
and then you can just copy
the starter template.
And this is again
linking to the CDN's.
Or you could download the
files locally depending on if
you have an Internet connection
as you're working locally,
and then just copy and paste
the files directly
within the project.
Save that.
And now when you open it up,
we've got the Hello World.
And this is going to be
styled with the Bootstrap.
If you were to take
the Bootstrap and
remove the bootstrap
and we refresh it.
The Hello World is
gonna be quite a bit
different within the webpage.
Now that we're ready to
start writing some
Bootstrap code.
And of course you can clean
up the peer commenting area,
so you don't need that
in your bootstrap file.
So that's what we're gonna
be doing in the next lesson.
So go ahead and get set up
ready to write some code.